there are days when solitude is heady
wine that intoxicates you
others when it is a bitter tonic and
still others when it is a poison that
makes you beat your head against a wall
Sidonie Gabrielle Colette
imagine that you have to spend a long
time in solitude for many people this is
an utterly frightening idea looking at
human societies we can see that we are
social creatures the majority of people
live in cities spend time in groups and
deal with each other on a daily basis
but we all could face a situation at
some point in which we are condemned to
ourselves reasons could be illness the
absence of social connections living in
a remote place being imprisoned or a
global crisis in which governments
prohibit us from leaving the house we
could be isolated alone or perhaps as a
group and for someone who is naturally
outgoing the prospect of having to spend
a large amount of time in solitude can
be frightening
moreover Dutch a psychologist Paul cope
states that the effects of long-term
isolation at home especially when we are
forced to
can be severe and even traumatic that's
why it's very important to keep in touch
with people in one way or another and
leave the house when there's a
possibility but when we have no choice
than to be isolated
we might benefit from looking at a
positive side of this with anything that
takes place outside us it's not the
event itself that decides our mood but
the position we take towards it I'm not
saying that we should deliberately live
in isolation all the time
but it is possible to use certain
periods of isolation not only for
personal growth but surprisingly for
better social connections as well this
video explores seven benefits of social
isolation
[Music]
one opportunity for reflection the first
benefit is that being alone is an
opportunity to think deeply about life
about our social connections or about
our jobs we're basically taking a break
from public life which is often busy and
doesn't leave much room for us to
reflect when we are temporarily
disconnected from the outside world we
can gain new insights we're more
influenced by the hurt than we think and
some time away from them can be very
beneficial when it comes to discovering
our authentic self and paved the way for
self-realization and to how Nietzsche
put it become who we are as psy.d cherie
burke carter wrote in an article on a
psychology today when you're part of a
group you're more likely to go along
with what a group is doing or thinking
which aren't always the actions you
would take or the decisions you would
make if you were on your own and quote
in solitude we can reflect on our past
choices and actions and look at our life
from a different angle
creating a journal is a way to keep
track of the thoughts that come to the
surface when the dust of our hectic and
complex lives starts to settle - a
chance for grounding Swiss psychiatrist
Carl Jung argue that our living
environment is an extension of ourselves
this means that a messy environment as a
negative influence on our mental state
and vice versa when we spend a majority
of our lives outside working socializing
studying etc chances are that there's a
disconnect between ourselves and our
homes moreover an unpleasant living
environment could make us want to escape
it all the time simply because we feel
miserable when we are at home and rather
spend time at the work or at the bar but
spending time at home whether it's
deliberate or not is a way to examine
our living situation and take the
necessary measures to turn it into a
pleasant comfortable place that we
actually love spending time in so we
feel grounded when we are at home
creating a comfort zone even if it's
just a small room that evokes a sense of
inner peace can make us productive and
creative as well it simply helps us
thrive 3
life planning now when we feel nice and
grounded in our solitude at home and
I've spent evening after evening in deep
self-reflection it may be time to get a
pen and paper or a laptop to write down
some goals for the future the problem
that many people have is that they run
through life like headless chickens
making important decisions on the fly
often heavily influenced by their
environment and without proper
reflection and consideration but when we
are alone we're able to take a step back
and think deeply about how we want to
continue living Lao Tzu observed that
the path will be clear when we're in a
state of stillness I quote who can be
still until their mud settles and the
water is cleared by itself can you
remain tranquil until right action
occurs by itself and quote now Lao Tzu
pointed to the mechanism of non-doing
which is the principle of letting nature
run its course without intervention this
doesn't mean that we should let our
lives plan themselves but when we become
still the greatest ideas come to the
surface including things we might have
suppressed which we can take into
account when forging our future plans
for creativity and socializing
it is now possible to find new ways of
socializing that could substitute
classic forms of communication yes we
miss certain aspects of face-to-face
communication like touch and physical
presence but with a webcam and
microphone we can establish at least a
connection through sounds and image by
thinking creatively we can find
substitutes for almost all forms of
social interaction team sports on the
field for example can be replaced by
online gaming
one-on-one conversations can be replaced
by video calls and so can hanging out
with friends and family if you're
isolated in a group because of a crisis
there are also ways to have a good time
together
instead of focusing on the dreadfulness
of isolation you can play games or do
some creative activities distraction is
key here also social isolation is an
opportunity to contact people we would
usually do not communicate with these
could be neighbors older people or
be friends we have lost touch with five
a chance to shed a light on the darkness
shedding light on the darkness may sound
a bit vague but solitude is an
opportunity to illuminate a part of
ourselves that we've pushed away for a
long time many people have hobbies and
interests that they just don't have time
for because of their jobs their social
lives or anything else that diverts them
from themselves oftentimes these are
artistic sides of us that our
environment may see as useless or
interests that serve no practical
purpose in our daily lives but are
fascinating and enjoyable nonetheless
like space travel
thus we might have pushed these aspects
of ourselves into the unconscious or at
Quora loom called the shadow in social
isolation we can shed light on these
long-forgotten passions and reignite
their flames we can get in touch with
sides of ourselves that we had forgotten
or even suppressed so we can integrate
them into our daily lives this brings us
to the next benefit which is increased
creativity according to a study by
Christopher long and James Avril the
cliche that solitude can lead us to be
more creative is true moreover the
inability to be alone is often the
reason that people fail to develop their
creative talents because and I quote
such development usually relies on
solitary activities such as practicing
one's musical instrument or writing
poetry in one's journal and quote
therefore social isolation can be an
opportunity to work on creative projects
that we previously didn't get to the
greatest things are achieved in solitude
just take a look at Nikola Tesla who
spent years working alone the results
changed humanity forever also if you
happen to have the ambition to become an
entrepreneur then this is the moment to
sit down and make use of the time in
which are not disturbed by the world
outside 7 a chance to detach being part
of society means that we are entangled
with the outside world especially
today's consumerist Society has engraved
in us the
work hard play hard mentality and that
all good stuff is found outside us it's
no surprise that people feel Restless in
solitude because it means that they are
cut off from the things that make life
worthwhile
this is tragic because happiness is not
found outside of us it's found within
chasing externals is like climbing down
a bottomless pit hoping that you'll
someday find a bucket with gold when you
reach the ground which despite all
promises will never happen social
isolation therefore is an opportunity to
detach ourselves from the religion of
money and consumption and create a sense
of contentment with what we have and who
we are because when all basic needs are
met what more do we need now that's it
thank you for watching
[Music]
you